# Generate Offline Map (Overrides)

## Description

Use the `OfflineMapTask`, with the overrides, to take a webmap offline.
The overrides workflow allows you to adjust the settings used for taking
each layer in the map offline. For a simple example of how you take a
map offline, please consult the “Generate Offline Map” sample.

For applications where you just need to take all layers offline, use the
standard workflow (using only `GenerateOfflineMapParameters`). For more
fine-grained control over the data you are taking offline, use overrides
to adjust the settings for each layer (`GenerateOfflineMapParameters` in
conjunction with `GenerateOfflineMapParameterOverrides`). Some example
use cases for the overrides approach could be when you need to:

  - adjust the extent for one or more layers to be different to the rest
    of the map.
  - reduce the amount of data (for example tile data) downloaded for one
    or more layers in the map.
  - filter features to be taken offline.
  - take features with no geometry offline - for example, features whose
    attributes have been populated in the office, but which need a site
    survey for their geometry.

![](screenshot.png)

## How to use the sample

1.  When the sample starts, you may be prompted to sign into arcgis.com.
2.  Click on “Generate Offline Map (Overrides)”.
3.  Use the range slider to adjust the min/max levelIds to be taken
    offline for the Streets basemap.
4.  Use the spin-box to set the buffer radius for the streets basemap.
5.  Click the buttons to skip the System Valves and Service Connections
    layers.
6.  Use the combo-box to select the maximum flow rate for the features
    from the Hydrant layer.
7.  Use the check-box to skip the geometry filter for the water pipes
    features.
8.  Click “Start Job”
9.  Wait for the progress bar to indicate that the task has completed.
10. You should see that the basemap does not display when you zoom out
    past a certain range and is padded around the original area of
    interest. The network dataset should extend beyond the target area.
    The System Valves and Service Connections should be omitted from the
    offline map and the Hydrants layer should contain a subset of the
    original features.

# How it works

The sample creates a `PortalItem` object using a web map’s ID. This
portal item is also used to initialize an `OfflineMapTask` object. When
the button is clicked, the sample requests the default parameters for
the task, with the selected extent, by calling
`OfflineMapTask::createDefaultGenerateOfflineMapParameters`. Once the
parameters are retrieved, they are used to create a set of
`GenerateOfflineMapParameterOverrides` by calling
`OfflineMapTask::createGenerateOfflineMapParameterOverrides`. The
overrides are then adjusted so that specific layers will be taken
offline using custom settings.

### Streets basemap (adjust scale range)

In order to minimize the download size for offline map, this sample
reduces the scale range for the “World Streets Basemap” layer by
adjusting the relevant `ExportTileCacheParameters` in the
`GenerateOfflineMapParameterOverrides`. The basemap layer is used to
contsruct an `OfflineMapParametersKey`object. The key is then used to
retrieve the specific `ExportTileCacheParameters` for the basemap and
the `levelIds` are updated to skip unwanted levels of detail (based on
the values selected in the UI). Note that the original “Streets” basemap
is swapped for the “for export” version of the service - see
<https://www.arcgis.com/home/item.html?id=e384f5aa4eb1433c92afff09500b073d>.

### Streets Basemap (buffer extent)

To provide context beyond the study area, the extent for streets basemap
is padded. Again, the key for the basemap layer is used to obtain the
key and the default extent `Geometry` is retrieved. This extent is then
padded (by the distance specified in the UI) using the
`GeoemetryEngine::bufferGeodesic` function and applied to the
`ExportTileCacheParameters`.

### System Valves and Service Connections (skip layers)

In this example, the survey is primarily concerned with the Hydrants
layer, so other information is not taken offline: this keeps the
download smaller and reduces clutter in the offline map. The two layers
“System Valves” and “Service Connections” are retrieved from the
operational layers list of the map. They are then used to construct an
`OfflineMapParametersKey`. This key is used to obtain the relevant
`GenerateGeodatabaseParameters` from the
`GenerateOfflineMapParameterOverrides::generateGeodatabaseParameters`
property. The `GenerateLayerOption` for each of the layers is removed
from the geodatabse parameters `layerOptions` by checking for the
`FeatureLayer::serviceLayerId`. Note, that you could also choose to
download only the schema for these layers by setting the
`GenerateLayerOption::queryOption` to `GenerateLayerQueryOption::None`.

### Hydrant Layer (filter features)

Next, the hydrant layer is filtered to exclude certain features. This
approach could be taken if the offline map is intended for use with only
certain data - for example, where a re-survey is required. To achieve
this, a whereClause (for example, “Flow Rate (GPM) \< 500”) needs to be
applied to the hydrant’s `GenerateLayerOption` in the
`GenerateGeodatabaseParameters`. The minimum flow rate value is obtained
from the UI setting. The sample constructs a key object from the hydrant
layer as in the previous step, and iterates over the available
`GenerateGeodatabaseParameters` until the correct one is found and the
`GenerateLayerOption` can be updated.

### Water Pipes Dataset (skip geometry filter)

Lastly, the water network dataset is adjusted so that the features are
downloaded for the entire dataset - rather than clipped to the area of
interest. Again, the key for the layer is constructed using the layer
and the relevant `GenerateGeodatabaseParameters` are obtained from the
overrides dictionary. The layer options are then adjusted to set
`useGeometry` to false.

Having adjusted the `GenerateOfflineMapParameterOverrides` to reflect
the custom requirements for the offline map, the original parameters and
the custom overrides, along with the download path for the offline map,
are then used to create a `GenerateOfflineMapJob` object from the
offline map task. This job is then started and on successful completion
the offline map is added to the map view. To provide feedback to the
user, the progress property of `GenerateOfflineMapJob` is displayed in a
window.

As the web map that is being taken offline contains an Esri basemap,
this sample requires that you sign in with an ArcGIS Online
organizational account.
